---
  id: 6
  type: 1
  text: "In 1938 a stage was added to the Hall. This feature used for college productions, also doubled as the setting for the College Bioscope which entertained boarders and staff at the weekends. "
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/30.24.jpg
  reference: "Image: Marist Archive"
---
As well as being used for indoor sports training and for events like prize-giving and formal dinners the hall was used for drama and other entertainments, much as it is today (though not for indoor sports since the Macartin Centre was built). Every Saturday during term time the Hall was turned into a cinema, or bioscope, for the entertainment of the boarders and staff. The 1938 Maristonian records that in that year a ‘Talkie’ machine was added to the bioscope – much to the excitement of everyone since up until then the movies had all been silent. The addition of the stage created more of a cinema-like effect for the showing of films that had been a regular feature at Sacred Heart for years, even at Koch Street in the early days as Brother Frederick had acquired a bioscope for use there. E. Joffe who was a boarder in the 1940s recalls in his memoires that Saturday evenings were, because of the bioscope, a highlight of the week. Films were usually educational in nature, with the odd ‘B’ movie comedy or western being shown. Since the reel needed to be changed during the film there were intervals during the screenings and it was at this time that the tuck shop was at its busiest. Joffe also recalls that the Brothers allowed all the staff at the school to watch the films – something of a rarity in those days since there were no picture houses in town open for black audiences.
        