---
  id: 3
  type: 1
  text: "The Yeoville Campus of Sacred Heart College (in the former Holy Family Convent at Muller/Regent Street) was 1,5 km away from the main school at (top right on map) and was in operation from 1980 to 1995. It was home to the Junior Primary until 1992 and the Nursery and Pre-Primary until 1995. "
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/07.33.jpg
  reference: "Image: Google Maps at  http://yeovillecommunityschool.weebly.com"
---
After the consolidation of three schools into Sacred Heart College in 1980, the increased pupil roll (from 500 to over 800) all learners could not be accommodated at the Observatory campus. The Holy Family Convent was used for the Sacred Heart College Junior Primary and Nursery schools. In 1993, after the completion of the new buildings (which now form the Intermediate Quad) the Junior Primary was moved back to Observatory. The classrooms vacated by the Junior Primary of Sacred Heart College at Yeoville were given over to the foundation of a new school, Yeoville Community School.

Much of the student body of the new Model C school was formed by children of the returning political exiles who began to come back to South Africa in the early 1990s and were aided through the Batlagae Trust along with children from the existing inner-city area, who until this point were unable to access their local school. Many of the pupils had been denied access to other city schools, often on the grounds of language and educational inadequacies, and the new school saw to it that the bridging of these gaps was achieved, with pupils then able to access other mainstream schools in due course. A similar pattern of assistance can be seen in the format currently employed in the Three2Six school that functions at the Sacred Heart premises today. Yeoville Community School, first headed by Jackie Stevenson (who came from the staff at Sacred Heart College) began as a school of less than 200 children, doubled again in size once the Sacred Heart nursery/Pre-Primary relocated to Observatory after 1995 and now has a roll of over 1000 learners.

Sacred Heart College through its staff, several of whom moved to work at the new schools in the name of providing experienced staff to a new community initiative, and the Marist Brothers (in negotiations with the Department of Education) were lynchpins in the establishment of quality education in the local environs. Barnato Park High School and Orange Grove Primary were amongst the first Model D schools opened in the early 1990s, established through efforts of the Marist Brothers and their supporters, many of whom were staff and parents of Sacred Heart College.
        