---
  id: 5
  type: 1
  text: "Brother Neil (second from left) and Brother Jude (fourth from right) pictured at an assembly of South African Marists in 2016. Brother Mario (second from right) and Brother Vincent (fourth from left) are College residents, with Brother Neil and Brother Jude. Brother Joseph (third from left) and Brother Paul (third from right) were so until 2016."
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/32.20.jpg
  reference: "Image: Institute of the Marist Brothers (FMS)"
---
During the late 1970s and 1980s, Sacred Heart College was undergoing a period of transformation. The school began to admit pupils other than white boys, first becoming an open school and then co-educational. The latter was not only done to consolidate three schools, but was part of a conscious move to destabilise the male-centric nature of the school and imbalances of power inherited from apartheid. The College was deliberately moving away from this old order, which also entailed the disbanding of the Cadets and the de-structuring of the Prefect System. College Principal, Brother Neil McGurk, and Brother Jude Pieterse (then Secretary General of SACBC and Chairperson of the SA Catholic Schools Association) were not only influential in the nation’s forthcoming socio-political transformations, particularly in the area of educational reforms, but were also integral to negotiations with the apartheid government, specifically in talks with the then Administrator of the Transvaal, Sybrand van Niekerk and the Minister of National Education, Piet Koornhof. These talks revealed the divisions beginning to appear within the apartheid regime regarding principles of inclusion in education, with the Brothers offering Catholic principles of inclusivity as a basis for educational reform. This was supported by international opinion regarding segregation in South Africa. The talks concluded with discussions on how moving against the open schools would further damage international relations in the wake of Soweto, the death of Steve Biko, and the cultural boycott. 
