---
  id: 7
  type: 1
  text: "Sacred Heart College alumni Rekgofatse Chikane being arrested during the protests to support #FeesMustFall in the Cape Town parliamentary precinct in 2015. "
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/32.05.jpg
  reference: "Image: James-Brent Styan"
---
The Co-Educational and Open policies of the school post 1980 afforded a multicultural, dynamic and balanced culture to the College which is often remarked on by those meeting alumni in the fields of further education and business. A confidence instilled in the individual through allowing no single grouping to dominate amongst the pupils – no sporting, academic or cultural merits are ranked more important than others, along side the cultivation of essential respect for the values of equality and freedoms, encouragement of critical thinking skills produces well balanced, respectful but equally opinionated and strong willed alumni.That many of the leaders in the 2015 and 2016 protests around access to education and its fee structures were alumni of Sacred Heart College came as no surprise. Pictured alumni Rekgofatse Chikane and Wits SRC Secretary General for 2016, Fasiha Hassan (matric 2011), are but two examples; many others, including some of the older students still attending the College also stepped forward to demonstrate their solidarity with the cause.

Rekgofatse Chikane, who in his final year at Sacred Heart was chairperson of the Learners Representative Council, is the son of Rev. Frank Chikane. Frank Chikane first associated with the school in 1971 when he came from Soweto to Observatory for extra Saturday lessons to boost his tuition before his matriculation exams that year. Later, in 1988 Frank Chikane, like Eric Molobi, was given refuge when he was being sought by the Security Police. He was harboured at the Holy Family Convent in Yeoville, by then a satellite premises for Sacred Heart. Though the property was raided and paper bombed, on the same night that Sacred Heart’s statue of Jesus was necklaced, Chikane was not at the property at the time. Later, however, Frank Chikane was subjected to a near-fatal poisoning which was surfaced during the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
        