---
  id: 4
  type: 1
  text: "Brother Jude with some Grade 1s in 2017."
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/12.70.jpg
  reference: "Image: Sacred Heart College"
---
Brother Jude describes himself as ‘working with young people’, but this only tells one small portion (though with a huge impact) of his contribution to transformative processes in South African society. Educated at St. Joseph’s College, Rondebosch from Standard 2 (grade 4 today), he professed his first Marist vows in 1959. Brother Jude taught in Marist Brothers’ Colleges in Observatory and in Walmer, Port Elizabeth, where he was Principal from 1969. In 1974, Br Jude was appointed Provincial of South Africa, a position he held for nine years. Following this, at the request of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Southern Africa (SACBC), he founded the Catholic Institute of Education. From 1988 until 1995 he served as Secretary General of the SACBC until re-appointment as Provincial of South Africa. From 1998, until 2003, Br Jude was Provincial of the new Marist Province of Southern Africa which, besides South Africa, involves the Brothers and their institutions in Angola, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Today he is a Councillor for the Southern African Province. 

As Director of the Catholic Institute of Education and later as Secretary General of the SACBC, in the 1980s and ‘90s Br Jude was a driving force in talks with the then Government around the desegregation of Catholic schools in South Africa. Over the years he has contributed to positive changes in the country, not least in missions relating to social justice and in terms of the development of national and Catholic education policies. In 1999 Br Jude set up the Marist Schools Council, which oversees the administration of the five Marist schools in South Africa.  