---
  id: 7
  type: 1
  text: "The current blazer and school badge, created in 1985, by Kobus Esterhuzien. "
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/36.12.jpg
  reference: "Image: C Kamana"
---
In 1986 the school proposed a two section high school with either Afrikaans or English offered as the medium of instruction (rather than only English). In addition, Sotho, French, Portuguese and Italian were offered as second languages. Though the whole school (Nursery, Primary and High School) was to retain the name Sacred Heart College, the High School was renamed Observatory College/Kollege. Both instruction medium groups were combined for sporting and cultural activities but split for Languages, Mathematics, Physical and Social Sciences. This dual first language programme lasted only a couple of years.

The badge created in 1985 was created to launch the above mentioned initiative, but has lasted for at least thirty years longer than the initial reason for its design. The cross with crook has been set within a Huguenot cross to signify the union of both the Catholic and Reformed theological traditions within the mediums of instruction to be offered. The  and  , the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet (alpha and omega) used together traditionally signify wholeness and were incorporated to symbolize the diverse (religious, racial and cultural) and co-educational nature of the school. The hearts in the center are the three petals of the Holy Family shamrock and a fourth for the Sacred Heart of Jesus. The stars (though here only five can be seen, with the idea that the other two are artistically ‘hidden’ behind the logo) are the seven of the constellation Ursula Minor (or little bear) from the Ursuline badge which points to the Pole star, traditionally the star towards which one looks to for direction. As such, the badge speaks to more than just the dual language programme that it was created to around but commemorates the union of three schools and celebrates the diverse and inclusive nature of the Sacred Heart College community.
        