---
  id: 1
  type: 1
  text: "“Hip Hip Hurrah! Deo Gratias [Thanks be to God]” in response to news that Marist Brothers could soon arrive to begin setting up a school in Johannesburg. Letter from Br Nectaire, Principal of Marist Uitenhage College, to Fr De Lacy O.M.I. (and Apostolic Delegate) in August 1889"
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/01.38c.jpg
  reference: "Image: Catholic History Bureau"
---
The first Catholic Mass was said in Ferreira’s camp in February 1887, ten years after the first Catholics (Oblate priests from the O.M.I missionary congregation) arrived in the then Transvaal at Pretoria in 1878\. Shortly after the first Catholic Mass was said it was decided a school for Catholic children was needed. The Holy Family sent six Sisters who set up a Convent school in October 1887, the first official school set up in Johannesburg. It was such a success that expansion was needed, specifically a school for boys. The O.M.I priests, not teachers themselves, wrote to the Marist Brothers asking them to extend their missions already established elsewhere in South Africa and to consider the Transvaal.

The archive of the Catholic History Bureau (in Victory Park) keeps a series of letters between the Marists (written by Br Nectaire in Uitenhage) and two of the O.M.I priests, then based in Pretoria and Johannesburg (Father Monginoux and Father De Lacy). The letters discuss the possibility of bringing the Marist Brothers to the then Transvaal relaying responses from the Marist General House in France around initial concerns. The Marist Superiors were worried about ‘faithless, lawless and dirty’ Johannesburg fearing that the town would ‘vanish in the dust’ like early American pioneer towns within a few years, preferring to start in the by then more established Pretoria. Brother Nectaire convinced them otherwise and eventually arrangements were made to send Brothers from Europe specifically for two schools to be opened in Johannesburg and Pretoria. The latter didn’t happen since missions in Natal and Kimberley appropriated the Brothers sent for Pretoria. The letters (to Father De Lacy) were written in English and (to Father Monginoux) in French. Later letters in the collection discuss the specifics of the Marist mission to Johannesburg and the setting up of the school (its physical make up and visions for educational practice).

The selected letter is a reply to a letter from Father de Lacy who had assured Br Nectaire that land and permits to set up a school by the soon to arrive Marists had been secured and that building had begun. The reference to ‘your Brothers’ is particular to the three Brothers ‘earmarked’ to go to Johannesburg; two who had in 1889 only recently arrived from Europe and one who had been teaching already in South Africa. There had been many delays around getting them to Johannesburg (to do with security concerns, financing and demands from other Marist missions in South Africa) and, according to Brother Nectaire, the three Brothers had begun to lose hope that they might ever reach their destination.
        