---
  id: 4
  type: 1
  text: "Architect’s impression of the proposed new sports hall in 1984, the year the Development Fund was started."
  url: assets/images/points-of-interest/22.10.jpg
  reference: "Image: Marist Archive"
---
The Brother Macartin Indoor Sports & Community Centre was officially opened on 18th July 1992 by The Right Reverend Reginald Orsmond, Bishop of Johannesburg. The opening of the Macartin Centre was organised by Linda Giuricich (née Woock), who taught PE and Standard 3 for 20 years and was Principal of the Foundation Phase (then located at Yeoville Convent) for six years. Linda also organised the Cultural Festival, which was the forerunner of the current-day Heritage Day Music Festival. Linda Giuricich is the granddaughter of Richard Hurly, after whose farm Hurlyvale in Edenvale is named. Generations of both the Hurly and Giuricich families attended Koch Street, Marist ‘Obs’ and Yeoville Convent. Richard’s six sons and brother, Henry Hurly, attended Sacred Heart College (at both sites). Of their sons, Richard (junior), was Head Boy and another, Charles, a Springbok soccer player. Ten grandchildren and great-grandchildren followed suit. 

The Giuricich brothers, who were builders, brought soil (dug up when building the Rosebank Mall) to level some of the school playing fields in the 1960s. Linda’s grandmother, Myrtle Hurly, chaired the Ladies’ Committee that raised the funds to build The Memorial Chapel. Linda recalls that her grandfather Richard Hurly received the first Marist Brothers who arrived from Kimberley by ox wagon in 1887, as they stopped at the Hurly dairy farm before continuing to Johannesburg. Today Linda runs Aerials Rhythmic Gymnastics club from Sacred Heart College, and which has been based at the school since 1980. Chantal Moonsammy and Nadia Harris, 2006 Springbok gymnasts and Sacred Heart alumni, were her students. Two current learners who train at Aerials represent Gauteng, and alumnus Sara Feldman won South African titles for four consecutive years. 
        